# simpute_py

### What does it do?
Have you ever had a time when your missing data was holding you back? Well then this package is for you!

Our python package for simple data imputation will allow you to quickly and seamlessly impute any missing data (be numeric, categorical, date/time or boolean values) using any large datasets. 

All you have to do is follow these simple 4 steps:
 1. Import the data you wish you impute
 2. Select the method of imputation (this will depend on the data type - read the usage section below for more details)
 3. Run the package
 4. Save your newly imputed dataset

The novelty here is our speciality "random" imputation generator which will aim to imitate your data so that you create a brand new datasets with no missing values. This will help provide ready to use dummy data for all your testing needs.

Our package will help simplify all your imputation needs so your data is ready when you need it!

## Installation

```bash
$ pip install simpute_py
```

## Usage

We have four main functions dealing with each data type:
- `Num_imputer`: This function fills in the empty values of a numeric column with values derived from your selected imputation method to facilitate data preprocessing. Your options for method include _knn_ (autogenerated values based on KNN), *quant_rand* (a random generator using values found in the 0.25 to 0.75 percentile), _mean_, _median_, _mode_ and _bayes_(autogenerated values based on Naive Bayes). 
- `Cat_imputer`: This function fills in the empty values of a categorical column with values derived from your selected imputation method to facilitate data preprocessing. Your options for method include _knn_ (autogenerated values based on KNN), *rand* (a random generator), _frequent_ (most frequent) and _bayes_ (autogenerated values based on Naive Bayes).
- `Bol_imputer`: This function fills in the empty values of a boolean column with values derived from your selected imputation method to facilitate data preprocessing. Your options for method include _knn_ (autogenerated values based on KNN), *rand* (a random generator), _frequent_ (most frequent) and _bayes_ (autogenerated values based on Naive Bayes).
- `Date_imputer`:This function fills in the empty values of a date column with values derived from your selected imputation method to facilitate data preprocessing. Your options for method include _knn_ (autogenerated values based on KNN), *rand* (a random generator), _frequent_ (most frequent) and _bayes_ (autogenerated values based on Naive Bayes).

We also have one additional function which will help you impute all missing values in all fields given a dataset:
- `all_imputer`: This function fills in the empty values of all columns in a given dataframe derived from your selected imputation method to facilitate data preprocessing (the same imputation method will be used for all columns).  Your options for method include _knn_ (autogenerated values based on KNN), *rand* (a random generator), _frequent_ (most frequent) and _bayes_ (autogenerated values based on Naive Bayes).


## Place in the Python Ecosystem

Currently, there are many other ways you can impute a dataset, using various functions within pykitlearn. However, this is the first we've seen of a package that does all the imputations for your and/or 

## Contributing

Interested in contributing? Check out the contributing guidelines. Please note that this project is released with a Code of Conduct. By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

## License

`simpute_py` was created by Ken Wang. It is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.

## Credits

`simpute_py` was created with [`cookiecutter`](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and the `py-pkgs-cookiecutter` [template](https://github.com/py-pkgs/py-pkgs-cookiecutter).

